Define clear import paths
When creating the new route files, such as routes-voice.ts or routes-stripe.ts, it's a good practice to standardize your import paths.
Bad: import { someFunction } from '../../utils'
Good: import { someFunction } from '@server/utils'
Using an alias (@server/utils) makes imports cleaner and less prone to errors when files are moved.
Consider helper and dependency layers
As you move the routes, pay attention to the dependencies. Do the voice assistant routes rely heavily on the AI service? Does the Stripe logic require a database connection?
Move business logic: The logic inside the routes might be complex. If so, move it to a dedicated service layer. For example, server/core/services/paymentService.ts would handle all the business logic for Stripe payments, leaving the routes-stripe.ts file only for routing.
Move data access: The calculateWellnessScore function is a great example of a utility function that likely has no side effects and is a candidate for its own file (server/utils/math.ts or server/utils/calculations.ts). 
Structure the front-end refactoring
When you tackle chef-ai.tsx, you can apply a similar principle of single responsibility. 
Extract components: Look for self-contained UI sections.
Stateful logic: Extract logic for API calls, state management, and user interactions into custom hooks (e.g., useChefAi.ts).
Presentational components: Extract purely presentational JSX into smaller, "dumb" components that receive data via props (e.g., AiResponse.tsx, AiInputForm.tsx).
Organize files: Place these new components and hooks into a logical directory structure to maintain clarity and make them discoverable for other developers. 
A final step: Clean up the old file
After all the routes and logic have been moved, your old routes.ts file will be much smaller.
Delete dead code: Remove any remaining code that is no longer used, including unused imports and comments.
Create an entry point: Create a new server/api/routes/index.ts to act as the main entry point, importing and assembling all the new route files. This replaces the old routes.ts in your main server.ts or app.ts file. 
This refined plan adds more rigor and best practices to your excellent initial outline, ensuring a smoother refactoring process and a higher-quality result. 
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

